hi this is pretend you're watching
duction curry but they're just breakfast
time tea time snack dinner or a roadside
meal the most sought-after recipes are
usually idlis and those are and put the
pumps today I'll be showing you a really
really super easy to make masala dosa
recipe and you know how to make that
statement so when I say masala dosa
obviously there's going to be a batter
involved and there is a masala that has
to be made now this masala is made from
a potato filling and let's have a look
at the ingredients for the same now for
the masala I will be using around 2 to 3
medium size potatoes and to make the
third cup for that I'll be using some
oil around one and a half teaspoons of
oil 1/2 a teaspoon each of mustard seeds
chana dal chopped green chillies some
curry leaves he in for
chopped coriander I have some red chilli
and garlic paste that I have made I'll
show you how to make it later on I have
1 medium sized onion which I have finely
chopped salt to taste and pinch of
turmeric and last but not the least
obviously dosa batter now that we have
had a look at her ingredients let's get
started with the filling I have a pan
here and I'm adding oil now like I told
you I said 1 and 1/2 teaspoons of oil
why don't I have teaspoons of oil is for
making the filling we will require oil
probably a teaspoon of oil or half a
teaspoon of oil to make your dosas for
each those are that's separate so let's
add a third kind radiance I'm adding
around 1/2 a teaspoon of mustard cheese
the flame and once that starts to
crackle I can actually add the chana dal
also little bit of chana dal
we'll just allow master to splatter the
rest of the ingredients add some curry
leaves some green chillies I'm using two
varieties here the red chillies are nice
and spicy a little bit of heat a little
bit of coriander this is optional the
corianders optional but somehow it gives
a nice flavor
these chilies are really really hot now
what I'm going to do is I'm going to add
the onion I'm going to reserve some
onions very little just to show you
something it is done usually on the
roadside now if you want you can also
slice the onions
you'll add a little bit of salt to allow
the onions to faster now we don't need
to cook this till it's brown just till
it's translucent and now we'll add a
little bit of turmeric
and potatoes now these are medium-sized
2 to 3 potatoes what I've done is I have
boiled them in the pressure cooker with
their field then I have discarded the
peel I have not added any salt while
cooking the potato if you want you can
also add the garlic and all but I'm just
making the most basic version now let's
add the main ingredient that's the salt
now as you know I already add a little
bit of salt so keep that in mind
just give this um mix and what we'll do
is we'll just cook this for a few
seconds till it's all come together and
then we'll transfer it into a bowl and
then we will start with the dosa process
now that our potatoes are cooked I have
just removed it transferred it onto a
bowl now the next process would be to
make the dosa so I have a Tavia a
nonstick tava now I'm going to put this
on the dosa mode and what I'll be doing
is applying a little bit of oil and I'm
just dipping a small chopped onion if
you want you can also use a tissue
generally we make those on a
wrought-iron table
[Music]
what we will do is we'll add our those
up I'm going to be adding the batter as
you can see this batter is nice and
smooth
what we'll do is take a small lady
[Music]
or in a circular motion
and what I'm going to do now is I'm
going to add some oil to cook at any
stage if you feel that your induction is
getting too hot what we'll be doing now
is we'll be adding the red chili and
garlic paste at that stage if you feel
it's going to get a little too hot what
you can do is you can switch off the
induction smear the paste and then
switch it on again not a problem it's
not going to hinder the cooking of the
dosa at all now that I've added the oil
what I'll be doing is I'll be adding the
paste here now this is nice and spicy so
not ideal adding a lot of it little now
what I have done is I have sold dried
red chilies a good quantity around 10 to
15 around 8 to 10 cloves of garlic and
then I have ground it into a paste now
fuze want to store this for long you can
add vinegar in this I have also added a
little bit of salt now what we'll do is
we'll just allow this to cook can see
that these pots are getting a little
brown now what I'm going to do at this
stage is I'm going to add a little bit
of onions and because it's getting brown
I'm going to switch off the flame now
usually in the roadside they do this you
know they add a little bit of onions and
coriander when they are stuffing the
door sound is completely optional
[Music]
just going to add that and I'm going to
take a good portion of potatoes around
two to three tablespoons now in the
roadside what we usually do is in Bombay
they smear this nicely evenly if you go
to the hotels what they do is they just
add it in between and then they serve it
so whichever way you want it can do that
now I'm just going to switch this on
again the reason like I told you before
why I switched off the induction was
because I saw a little starting to get
brown and I don't want my daughter to
burn nor do I want the paste to burn now
once this is done you know that a dosa
is ready if you want to cook this little
more what you can do is drizzle some
more oil on top that is not required
actually so what I'm going to do is just
see if the dough size cooked on this
side as you can see yes it has so we
just push this off and I'm going to just
remove a plate for myself
- first roll this sleep
as you can see nice masala dosa is ready
nice and crisp and did not take too much
of oil since then masala dosa are really
easy to make what are you waiting for
I hope that you will make this recipe
and I'm waiting for your feedback if you
like this recipe do share it and it
subscribe on India Food Network
until next time
[Music]